# Exploratory_Data_Analysis_using_Python_-_PowerBI
Scenario: An organization is growing at a rapid rate, yet employees are leaving the company. HR wants to understand what is causing this issue. I used python to clean the data, merge data sets, and create a baseline. I created a dashboard in Power BI to that can be used for basic exploratory analysis. The analysts can toggle attrition between departments or job roles. They can also use any variable within the Finalized HR Dataset. Additionally, the junior analysts can assess key performance indicators between departments and understand what factors contribute to a high level of attrition I used pandas, seaborn, numpy, and matplotlib to create heatmaps of the correlation matrix in odrer to further analyze the HR attrition data. I identified the variables with the highest impact on attrition and next created two predictive models using Scikit-Learn. I set up the logistic regression model with Attrition on the y-axis and the variables DistanceFromHome, YearsSinceLastPromotion, YearsAtCompany, HourlyRate, JobSatisfaction, WorkLifeBalance, PerformanceRating on the x-axis using a test size of 0.3. This model’s accuracy is 0.81208 which indicates that the logistic model using these variables is roughly 81% accurate. I then used a random forest to further determine the accuracy of the model using the same variables as the logistic regression model. The accuracy of this model is 86%. A presentation was created to present my findings to stakeholders and management.
